Please answer the below core-java Questions:

What is programing language?
A. A programming language is a system of notation for writing computer programs.

What jdk contains or composed of and define each components?
A. The JDK includes the Java Runtime Environment (JRE), an interpreter (java),
a compiler (javac), an archiver (jar), a documentation generator (javadoc),
and some other development tools. The Java Runtime Environment itself consists
of the Java Virtual Machine (JVM), supporting files, and core classes.

What is IDE?
A. An integrated development environment (IDE) is a software application
that helps programmers develop software code efficiently. It increases
developer productivity by combining capabilities such as software editing,
building, testing, and packaging in an easy-to-use application.

What are the IDEs available in the market to support java?
A. There are many Integrated Development Environments (IDEs) available in the
market that support Java. Some of the popular IDEs for Java development are:
Eclipse: Eclipse is a popular open-source IDE for Java development. It is highly extensible and can be
customized with a wide range of plugins.
IntelliJ IDEA: IntelliJ IDEA is a commercial Java IDE developed by JetBrains.
It provides advanced coding assistance, code analysis, and debugging tools.
NetBeans: NetBeans is a free and open-source Java IDE that supports Java, HTML, CSS, and JavaScript.
It comes with a wide range of features and plugins.
JDeveloper: JDeveloper is a free IDE developed by Oracle that supports Java,
XML, SQL, and other technologies. It provides visual development tools and code profiling tools.
BlueJ: BlueJ is a free and open-source IDE designed for beginners in Java development.
It provides a simplified interface and interactive tools for learning Java.
These are just a few of the popular IDEs available in the market for Java development.
Other notable IDEs include JGrasp, DrJava, and CodeWarrior.

Explain the entire java life cycle.
Life cycle of a java program tells us what happens right from the point when we type
source code in a text editor to the point that source code is converted into machine code (0's and 1's).

what is class?
A class is a blueprint or template for creating objects that share common properties and methods.

What is object?
An object is an instance of a class that has its own set of properties and methods.

What is the entry point of an application?
An application entry point identifies a resource that is an access point to an application.
Application entry points are used to control users' access to different versions of
an application that is deployed on a platform.

Why main is static?
It is not possible to invoke a function without constructing an instance of its class,
as there is no object of a class when the JVM starts. The main() function is declared
static such that the class can be loaded by JVM into the main memory.

Which class is the superclass of all classes?
Object class is the root or superclass of the class hierarchy, which is present in java.
lang package. All predefined classes and user-defined classes are the subclasses from Object class.

What is difference between path and classpath variables?
path variable is used to set the path for all Java software tools like javac.exe,
java.exe, javadoc.exe, and so on. classpath variable is used to set the path for java classes.

What is the difference between an Interface and Abstract class?
An abstract class can have both abstract and non-abstract methods,
while an interface can only have abstract methods.

Can you make an Object from an Interface and Abstract class ? if not how do you use it ?
No, we can't create an object of an abstract class. But we can create a reference variable of
an abstract class. The reference variable is used to refer to the objects of
derived classes (subclasses of abstract class).

what is Access Specifier?
Access modifiers or Access Specifier are keywords used to
set the accessibility of a class, method, or variable.

What is OOP ? Define each feature of java OOP.
OOP stands for Object-Oriented Programming, which is a way of organizing and designing software using objects.
- Abstraction is the practice of hiding unnecessary details while showing essential information,
and is achieved through abstract classes and interfaces.
- Polymorphism is the ability of an object to take on many forms and can be achieved through method overloading and overriding.
- Inheritance is a way of creating new classes that reuse code from existing classes.
- Encapsulation is the practice of hiding internal data and methods from the outside world, and is achieved through access modifiers.

What is Java Package and which package is imported by default?
In Java, two packages java. lang package and a no-name package (also called default package)
are imported by default in all the classes of Java.

What is API? Name list of API that you have used so far.
APIs are mechanisms that enable two software components to communicate with each other
using a set of definitions and protocols. For example, the weather bureau's software system
contains daily weather data. The weather app on your phone “talks” to this system via APIs
and shows you daily weather updates on your phone.

Does java support multiple inheritance, explain why or why not?
The Java programming language supports multiple inheritance of type, which is the ability of a
class to implement more than one interface. An object can have multiple types: the type of its own class
and the types of all the interfaces that the class implements.

What is method overloading and when it happens?
Method overloading is the practice of defining multiple methods with the same name but different parameters.

Explain exceptions in java and how to handle it.
The try-catch is the simplest method of handling exceptions. Put the code you want to run in the try block,
and any Java exceptions that the code throws are caught by one or more catch blocks. This method will catch
any type of Java exceptions that get thrown. This is the simplest mechanism for handling exceptions.

What is static keyword in java? How it has been used in variables and methods ?
In Java, static keyword is mainly used for memory management. It can be used with variables, methods,
blocks and nested classes. It is a keyword which is used to share the same variable or method of a given class.
Basically, static is used for a constant variable or a method that is same for every instance of a class.

What is final and how it has been used variables and methods?
The final keyword is a non-access modifier used for classes, attributes and methods, which makes them
non-changeable (impossible to inherit or override). The final keyword is useful when you want a variable
to always store the same value, like PI (3.14159...). The final keyword is called a "modifier".

What is final, finally and finalize?
- final is a keyword used in Java to restrict the modification of a variable, method, or class.
- finally is a block used in Java to ensure that a section of code is always executed, even if an exception is thrown.
- finalize is a method in Java used to perform cleanup processing on an object before it is garbage collected.

What is a constructor ?
A constructor is a special method that is called when an object is created and is used to initialize its properties.

Can we have multiple constructors in a class?
A class can have multiple constructors that assign the fields in different ways. Sometimes it's beneficial to
specify every aspect of an object's data by assigning parameters to the fields, but other times it might be
appropriate to define only one or a few.

If we don't have a constructor declared, what is called during the object creation?
If a class does not explicitly declare any, the Java compiler automatically provides a
no-argument constructor, called the default constructor.

What is "this" keyword in java ?
- This keyword can be used to refer current class instance variable.
- This keyword can be used to invoke current class method (implicitly).
- this() can be used to invoke current class constructor.
- This can be passed as an argument in the method call.
- This can be passed as argument in the constructor call.
- This can be used to return the current class instance from the method.

What is "super" keyword in java? How many possible way can you use?
The super keyword refers to superclass (parent) objects. It is used to call superclass methods,
and to access the superclass constructor. The most common use of the super keyword is to
eliminate the confusion between superclasses and subclasses that have methods with the same name.

What is JVM stand for ?
A Java virtual machine (JVM), an implementation of the Java Virtual Machine Specification,
interprets compiled Java binary code (called bytecode) for a computer's processor (or "hardware platform")
so that it can perform a Java program's instructions.

Is JVM platform independent?
JVM is undoubtedly platform-independent. Similar to how it varies depending on the surroundings.
For instance, MAC and Linux have a different JVM than Windows. It supports portability as one
of its key features since its code's portable bytecode makes it platform-independent.

What version of java are you using?
java 11.0.17 2022-10-18 LTS
Java(TM) SE Runtime Environment 18.9 (build 11.0.17+10-LTS-269)
Java HotSpot(TM) 64-Bit Server VM 18.9 (build 11.0.17+10-LTS-269, mixed mode)

What is JAR stand for ?
JAR stands for Java ARchive. It's a file format based on the
popular ZIP file format and is used for aggregating many files into one.

What is the difference between JDK and JVM?
The JVM is an abbreviation for Java Virtual Machine. The JDK (Java Development Kit)
is a software development kit that develops applications in Java. Along with JRE,
the JDK also consists of various development tools (Java Debugger, JavaDoc, compilers, etc.)

What is the difference between JVM and JRE?
And now, for the differences: JDK is the development platform, while JRE is for execution.
JVM is the foundation, or the heart of Java programming language, and ensures the program's
Java source code will be platform-agnostic. JVM is included in both JDK and JRE – Java programs won't run without it.

What is compile time and run time?
Compile time is the period when the programming code (such as C#, Java, C, Python)
is converted to the machine code (i.e. binary code). Runtime is the period of time when a
program is running and generally occurs after compile time.

What is heap?
The Java heap is the area of memory used to store objects instantiated by applications running on the JVM.
When the JVM is started, heap memory is created and any objects in the heap can be shared between threads as
long as the application is running.

How java manage it's memory?
Memory Management in Java refers to allocating and deallocating memory to java objects which reside in
areas called Stack and Heap. Java has an automatic memory deallocation system known as Garbage Collector.

What is the difference between String, StringBuffer and StringBuilder?
String is immutable whereas StringBuffer and StringBuilder are mutable classes. StringBuffer is
thread-safe and synchronized whereas StringBuilder is not. That's why StringBuilder is faster than StringBuffer.

What is Singleton class?
A singleton is a class that allows only a single instance of itself to be created and gives access to that
created instance. It contains static variables that can accommodate unique and private instances of itself.
It is used in scenarios when a user wants to restrict instantiation of a class to only one object.

What is Serialization and Deserialization?
Serialization in simple terms means converting an object into a sequence of bytes, deserialization is
exactly the opposite. In deserialization, an object is reconstructed back from the sequence of bytes.

when to use transient variable in java?
Transient in Java is used to mark the member variable not to be serialized when it is persisted to
streams of bytes. This keyword plays an important role to meet security constraints in Java.
It ignores the original value of a variable and saves the default value of that variable data type.

Difference between while and do..while loop?
What is the difference between while and do while loop? The difference between while and do while
loop is that in the while loop the condition is checked prior to executing any statements whereas
in the case of do while loop, statements are run at least once, and then the condition is verified.

What is Enum?
An enum type is a special data type that enables for a variable to be a set of predefined constants.
The variable must be equal to one of the values that have been predefined for it.
Common examples include compass directions (values of NORTH, SOUTH, EAST, and WEST) and the days of the week.

What is Iterator?
Iterator in Java is an object used to cycle through arguments or elements present in a collection.
It is derived from the technical term “iterating,” which means looping through. Generally, an
iterator in Java is used to loop through any collection of objects.

Which one will take more memory, an int or Integer?
The Integer class is a wrapper class for the int, while the int is not a class at all.
The Integer class allows conversion to float, double, long and short, while the int doesn't.
The Integer consumes slightly more memory than the 32-bit Java int.

Why is String Immutable in Java?
The String is immutable in Java because of the security, synchronization and concurrency,
caching, and class loading. The reason of making string final is to destroy the immutability
and to not allow others to extend it. The String objects are cached in the String pool, and it makes the String immutable.

What is constructor chaining in Java?
Constructor chaining refers to the ability to call a constructor inside another constructor.
You can use a constructor chain either within the same class or even with another one. For the latter,
the constructor should be through inheritance from the super class.

The difference between Serial and Parallel Garbage Collector?
The only difference between serial and parallel garbage collector is that serial garbage collector uses a
single thread for garbage collection process while the parallel garbage collector uses multiple threads for
the garbage collection. Parallel GC can use multiple CPUs to speed up the application throughput

What is JIT stands for?
What is Just-in-Time (JIT)? Just-in-time, or JIT, is an inventory management method in which goods are
received from suppliers only as they are needed.

Explain Java Heap space and Garbage collection?
Java objects reside in an area called the heap. The heap is created when the JVM starts up and may increase or
decrease in size while the application runs. When the heap becomes full, garbage is collected. During the garbage
collection objects that are no longer used are cleared, thus making space for new objects.

Can you guarantee the garbage collection process?
No, not at all. In languages without garbage collection, the programmer (or a library he uses) is
responsible for making requests for memory and for returning the allocated memory for "recycling".
there are no guarantees that the memory would be available when it is requested.

What is the difference between stack and heap in Java?
Heap memory is used by all the parts of the application whereas stack memory is used only by one thread of execution.
Whenever an object is created, it's always stored in the Heap space and stack memory contains the reference to it.

What is reflection in java and why is it useful?
Reflection is a feature in the Java programming language. It allows an executing Java program to examine or "introspect"
upon itself, and manipulate internal properties of the program. For example, it's possible for a Java class to obtain
the names of all its members and display them.

what is multithreading in java?
Multithreading is a programming concept in which the application can create a small unit of tasks to execute in parallel.
If you are working on a computer, it runs multiple applications and allocates processing power to them. A simple program
runs in sequence and the code statements execute one by one.

What is the use of synchronization in Java?
Synchronization in java is the capability to control the access of multiple threads to any shared resource.
In the Multithreading concept, multiple threads try to access the shared resources at a time to produce inconsistent
results. The synchronization is necessary for reliable communication between threads.

What is Framework?
Java Framework is the body or platform of pre-written codes used by Java developers to develop Java applications or
web applications. In other words, Java Framework is a collection of predefined classes and functions that is used
to process input, manage hardware devices interacts with system software.

What are the testing Framework available in java?
There are several testing frameworks available in Java. Here are some of the most popular ones:
JUnit: JUnit is the most widely used testing framework in Java. It is used for unit testing and is supported by most of the IDEs like Eclipse, NetBeans, and IntelliJ IDEA.
TestNG: TestNG is a testing framework that is inspired by JUnit and NUnit. It supports more flexible and powerful tests.
Mockito: Mockito is a mocking framework for unit tests in Java. It is used to create mock objects for classes that are not fully implemented yet.
Selenium: Selenium is a web application testing framework that can be used to test web applications across different browsers and platforms.
Cucumber: Cucumber is a tool that supports behavior-driven development (BDD) and allows the writing of test cases in plain English language.
Arquillian: Arquillian is a framework that allows testing of Java applications in containers such as JBoss and Tomcat.
Spock: Spock is a testing framework that is used to write tests in Groovy programming language. It combines the best features of JUnit, Mockito, and other testing frameworks.
These are just some of the most popular testing frameworks available in Java. Depending on the requirements of the project, other testing frameworks may also be used.

Difference between jUnit and testNG?
JUnit is a framework that is open-source and may be used to write and trigger tests. TestNG is a Java-based framework that provides
an improved way to run tests. Advanced annotation is not supported. It is capable of supporting more advanced annotation.

What are the dependencies for this project?
How to Identify Project Dependencies. In order to identify project dependencies, you must first create a map of
project tasks. Next, look for tasks that the team cannot perform until they receive information or deliverables
from a previous task. Those tasks are dependent.

what is dependency injection in java?
Dependency Injection in Java is a way to achieve Inversion of control (IoC) in our application by moving objects
binding from compile time to runtime. We can achieve IoC through Factory Pattern, Template Method Design Pattern,
Strategy Pattern and Service Locator pattern too.

What is static binding and dynamic binding?
Static binding does its work during compile time and has better performance. Static binding can be applied using
function overloading or operator overloading. Dynamic binding works during run time & is more flexible.
Dynamic binding can be accomplished using virtual functions.









